Fraz, S, Laframboise L, Manzon R, Somers CM, Wilson JY*. 2024. Embryonic and larval development of yellow perch (Perca falvescens) and its sensitivity to incubation temperature. Journal of Fish Biology; 1-7. https://doi.org/10.1111/jfb.15813 

Results

3.2 | Developmental progression in different thermal regimes
"Incubation of embryos in the constant thermal regimes (12, 15, and 18C) yielded differences in developmental progression time. In general, developmental progression was the fastest in the embryos incubated at 18C and the slowest in those incubated at 12C, where as the 15C group showed medial developmental progression (Table 1).Difference in developmental progression was evident by divergence in the median time of a developmental stage: longest at 12C and shortest at 18C. Differences were noticeable after organogenesis1 (embryonic period) and became more prominent in the post-hatch(larval) period (Table 1). Between organogenesis 1 and the exogenous feeding larval phases, the individuals reared at 12C developed at a rate 1.9–2.4 times slower as compared to those reared at 18C(Table 1). Similarly, time to reach a certain stage in the developmental sequence by the individuals reared at 12C was 1.3–1.8 times greater as compared to those reared at 15C, and the individuals reared at 18C developed 1.3–1.4 times faster than those reared at 15C(Table 1).Rearing under fluctuating incubation temperatures to mimic ambient spring conditions was only completed with Batch 1 embryos; blastulation and gastrulation was not captured with Batch 1, which took longer to bring into the laboratory. Yet, using data from the Batch 1 fish reared at constant temperatures, the developmental advancement of the ambient seasonal culture was close to that of 12C at organogenesis 1 and at 10% hatch, and between 12 and 15C at all the other developmental stages (Table S1). Developmental progression was similar across the batches of embryos and to our predictions based on published literature (Table S1)."

In this section the results are summarized in writing and then also tabulated. There weren't any statistical tests conducted these values due to low sample sizes and because observations were made from different batches and ribbons. From this standpoint the summarization I think is good because it allows for clear communication about the directionality and scale of the effect. The analyzed data that is formatted into a table that would be better represented in a graphical format for interpretation by the reader. The tabulated data includes the average time +/- the standard error of the mean at which each of the 3 temperature treatments reached each of the 12 developmental stages. Creating a line graph with lines for the treatment groups, and the axes being the developmental stage and time would help to better show the scale but also allow them to see differences between of stages by comparing angles and error bar sizes. 

JD: It's not your fault, but this seems very weird. You almost always _can_ do a statistical test. And were you able to figure out where they got the ranges they reported?


3.3 | Survival in different thermal regimes 
"No differences were found in survival at hatch between constant 12, 18C, and ambient seasonal regimes (71.98, 68.62, and 68.80%, respectively), but survival was lower at 15C (52.67%) than those at 12C and ambient seasonal regime (Figure 9). However, these differences were largely due to ribbon 1 (Figure S1). There was a larger variation in survival at 15 and 18C for most ribbons (Figure S1)." 

The caption included "Statistical analyses were completed across incubation regimes. The letters indicate statistical differences across the incubation regimes. Kruskal Wallis ANOVA, p < 0.017, n = 2–4 ribbons/incubation regime."

I think reporting the p value of the statistical test should be reported in the main text section rather than the caption. The actual calculated p value should be reported and given in relation to the threshold value. The main section similarly summarizes the direction and effect size as the previous section but could be more blatant in communicating statistical significance. The first sentence could be rewritten to look something more like "No significant differences were found in survival at hatch between constant 12, 18C, and ambient seasonal regimes with 71.98, 68.62, and 68.80%, respectively, but survival was significantly lower at 15C, 52.67%, than those at 12C and ambient seasonal regime (Kruskal–Wallis p = 0.014, a=0.017, Figure 9)." 

I'm pretty against saying “no differences” without adding significant (or clear); it seems to me to lead to a lot of confusion.

3.4 | Developmental abnormalities
"At hatch, the incidence of oedema was high in the larvae of constant 15C and ambient seasonal regimes (Table 2). Differences in cranial malformations and lower jaw shortening were high in those from constant 12C and ambient seasonal regimes. No differences in the incidence of caudal fin and spinal malformations were found in the larvae from different thermal regimes (Table 2). At the swim-up phase, caudal fin malformations were more prevalent in the larvae from constant 12 and 15C regimes than those from 18C and the ambient seasonal regimes (Table 2). Oedema (of the pericardium and/or the yolk sac) and upper jaw protrusion were most prevalent in the larvae from constant 15 and 12C, respectively. No differences in the incidence of spinal and cranial malformations were present in the larvae from different thermal regimes at the swim-up phase. At the mixed feeding and exogenous feeding phases, only protrusion of lower jaw differed across incubation groups. Protrusion of lower jaw was most prevalent in the larvae from constant 18C, and this was statistically different from 15C and ambient seasonal regimes at mixed feeding phase (Table 2). At the exogenous feeding phase, lower jaw protrusion was only different between the larvae from 15C and the ambient seasonal regimes. No differences in the incidence of oedema, spinal malformations, and upper jaw protrusion were found in the larvae from different thermal regimes in either phase (Table 2)." 

Caption included "Kruskal Wallis ANOVA, Dunns' post hoc test, p < 0.017. (nT6 = 86–158, nT7 = 84–87, nT8 = 84–86, nT9 = 80–82 fish per incubation regime)." 

In this case I think having the p value being reported in the caption makes more sense due to the nature of the statistical test and how the section summarizes the effects of the different temperatures. It should however still report the calculated p value in relation to the threshold value. The table containing the data has letters showing statistical significance between the different treatment groups per life stage and incidence rates of malformations. Similarly to the 3.2 section the data table would be better represented in a graphical format with a facet grid and markers for statistically significant groups as it would be easier to interpret and digest. Unlike in section 3.2 this section doesn't include information on the effect size. For example the first sentence and many of the others could say something along the lines of "At hatch, the incidence of oedema was statistically higher in the larvae of constant 15C and ambient seasonal regimes than 18C by 5 and 31% incidence respectively (Table 2)." Or something related to that depending on how you compare significantly different groups that each contain non statistically different treatments. 

JD: “only different” seems even worse to me -- it directly implies differences not seen clearly were not there. I agree with you about graphical display and that they should try harder to show effect sizes. I would argue that they should also try harder to talk about CIs. Grade: 2/3
