
[BMB: could have broken this up a bit for readability ...]
The theoretical context for my data is that the flavonoid, quercetin, is a ligand for the CYP1 subfamily of proteins from cytochrome p450 genes. Protein activity must be calculated to determine if quercetin is a ligand for the certain CYP1 proteins.

Quercetin like most flavonoids turns water a yellow/orange colour. If quercetin is a ligand for CYP1 proteins, then when present CYP1 proteins will break down quercetin. Thus, the colour of water will slowly revert to being clear. Measuring the change in absorbance over time gives us an indirect measurement of protein activity. If the protein is activated by quercetin, the rate at which absorbance decreases over time will be greater/more negative. We are measuring absorbance on a ratio scale as zero absorbance means that there is no longer any quercetin present. By using this scale it allows us to use linear regressions to determine the average rate of consumption of quercetin by the CYP1 proteins by calculating the slope of the regression.
[BMB: this connection doesn't make sense to me. If we fit a linear model of (untransformed) absorbance [colour] as a function of (untransformed) time, that implies that absorbance would eventually go negative if we waited long enough ...]

We can then also use the means of the slopes to determine a proxy for the average activity level of CYP1 proteins to quercetin. Important differences in the activity of the proteins are when the rate of consumption of quercetin is 25% or greater in the assay with all components present (protein, NADPH and reductase represented as positive) than the other assays controlling for changes in absorbance not caused by the protein. This 25% or greater difference in protein activity is viewed as biologically significant because ligand binding isn't binary as all components need to be present at the same time to, in this case, breakdown quercetin. Downstream effects aren't linear so 25% increases in flux can easily impact metabolite concentrations and feedback loops.   [BMB: a *proportional* (i.e. 25%) rate change will be a little bit hard to use as an effect size from a linear model (hard to compute confidence intervals, although not impossible). Are you willing to commit to this, i.e. if you found a statistically significant result with a 24% change, would you be willing to classify that as 'not a ligand/not biologically significant'? I don't object to this specified cutoff value, but am curious how you arrived at it ...

mark: 2]
